---
layout: default2014
title: Invited speaker
published: true
---

### [Colin Atkinson](http://swt.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/de/team/colin-atkinson/) - From Language Engineering to Viewpoint Engineering

As software systems increase in size and complexity, and are expected
to cope with ever more quantities of information from ever more
sources, there is an urgent and growing need for a more view-oriented
approach to software engineering. Views allow stakeholders to see
exactly the right information, at exactly the right time, in a way
that best matches their capabilities and goals. However, this is only
possible if the information is represented in the optimal languages
(i.e. domain- and purpose-specific), with the necessary context
information and the optimal manipulation/editing features - that is,
if information is viewed from the optimal viewpoints. Rather than
merely engineering languages, therefore, software engineers in the
future will need to engineer viewpoints, which augment language
definitions (e.g. meta-models, syntax ...) with context information
(e.g. elision, location, perspective ...) and user-interaction
information (e.g. editing pallets, view manipulation services ...). In
this talk Colin Atkinson will outline the issues faced in supporting
the flexible and efficient engineering of viewpoints and will present
some key foundations of a fundamentally view-oriented approach to
software engineering.


### Biography

[Colin Atkinson](http://swt.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/de/team/colin-atkinson/) has been the leader of the Software Engineering Group
at the University of Mannheim since April 2003. Before that he has
held positions at the University of Kaiserslautern, the Fraunhofer
Institute for Experimental Software Engineering and the University of
Houston - Clear Lake. His research interests are focused on the use of
model-driven and component based approaches in the development of
dependable and adaptable computing systems. He was a contributor to
the original UML development process and is one of the original
developers of the deep (multi-level) approach to conceptual modelling.
He received his Ph.D. and M.Sc. in computer science from Imperial
College, London, in 1990 and 1985 respectively, and his B.Sc. in
Mathematical Physics from the University of Nottingham 1983.
