---
layout: default2014
title: Workshops
published: true
---

### Call for workshop proposals

SLE 2014 sollicits pre-conference workshop proposals. The goal of such a
workshop is to work on, discuss or teach a particular aspect of Software
Language Engineering. Typically people could be invited to submit position
papers to such workshops, but we do not expect a program committee or a
publication venue.

### ITSLE

This is the yearly workshop for the industrial perspective on SLE. We are
looking for an organizer for 2014.

### Parsing@SLE

The topics of parsing and parser generation, both in theory and in practice,
may be old, yet there are still challenging problems with respect to the
construction and maintenance of parsers. Especially in the context of real
programming languages there are ample theoretical as well as practical
obstacles to be taken. Contemporary parsing challenges are caused by
programming language evolution and diversity in the face of new application
areas such as IDE construction, reverse engineering, software metrics, domain
specific (embedded) languages, etc. What are modular meta-formalisms for parser
generation? How to obtain (fast and correct) parsers for both legacy and new
languages that require more computational power than context-free grammars and
regular expressions can provide? How to enable the verified construction or
prototyping of parsers for languages such as COBOL, C++ and Scala without years
of effort?

The goal of this workshop is a retreat: to bring together today's experts in
the field of parser construction for programming languages. We will present the
currently ongoing (unpublished) work as well as explore the challenges that lie
ahead. By bringing the whole community together we hope to create synergy and
forge new collaborations. Parsing@SLE is a part of the larger SLE conference.

Parsing@SLE is not a publication venue. We will collect minutes and the
slides of the presentations and publish them online for later reference.
However we will surely allow authors to keep the slides for themselves and keep
some comments off the record, for example pending publication of recent
results. 
