---
title: Keynotes
layout: default2008
---

## Model-driven Engineering meets Generic Language Technology

**Mark van den Brand, Technical University of Eindhoven**

### Abstract

One of the key points of model-driven engineering is the raise of
abstraction with respect to software development.  However, this
phenomenon is not new. In the sixties of the previous century the
first high-level programming languages were developed and they also
increased the abstraction level of software development. The
development of high-level programming languages initiated research on
compilers and programming environments. This research eventually
matured into generic language technology; the description of
(programming) languages and tooling to generate compilers and
programming environments. The model-driven engineering community is
developing tools to analyze models and to transform models into
code. The application of generic language technology or at least the
lessons learnt by this community can be beneficial for model-driven
engineering community. By means of a number of case studies I will
show how generic language technology research can be useful for the
development of model-driven engineering technology.

### Bio

Mark van den Brand started his study computer science in 1982 at the
Radboud University Nijmegen (The Netherlands). In 1987 he became a PhD
student at the Radboud University Nijmegen. In 1992 he started as
assistent professor in the Programming Research Group at the
University of Amsterdam. In 1997 he switched from University of
Amsterdam to CWI (Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica) and became
senior researcher and project leader on the ASF+SDF project. The
ASF+SDF project is one of the main research topics of the Interactive
Software Development and Renovation group. From November 2001 up to
December 2002 he worked as visiting researcher at INRIA/LORIA in
Nancy. In 2002 he was also appointed as part timse associate professor
in at the department of Information Management and Software
Engineering at the Vrije Universiteit. In 2003 he became part time
lecturer (lector) Software Quality at the Hogeschool van Amsterdam. At
the beginning of 2006 he was appointed as full professor Software
Engineering and Technology at the Eindhoven University of
Technology. Since October 2006 he is also scientific director of
LaQuSo, the research laboratory of the Computer Science Department.

His main research activities are on generic language technology, model
driven engineering and reverse engineering. He is member of the
steering committee of the workshop series Language Descriptions Tools
and Applications (LDTA and general secretary of European Association
of Programming Languages and Systems (EAPLS). He is guest editor of a
special issue Experimental Software and Toolkits (EST) of the journal
Science of Computer Programming. He is PC member of various workshops,
conferences and summer schools in the field of reverse engineering,
language technology, and software engineering in general.


## Software Language Engineering: Chartin' the Map

**Anneke Kleppe, Cap Gemini

### Abstract

No doubt that in the world of software, languages are of the utmost
importance. From the early days of computing we had to tackle two
problems: (1) how do I tell the computer what to do, and (2) how do I
tell the people that work with my software, what it does and how to
handle it. Both problems are essentially language issues. What is and
is not a good language to tackle these problems? And, when you have
found a good language, what are the most effective ways to use it?

This presentation will not provide the ultimate answers to these
questions, because there are none. Based on specific circumstances the
answers will be different on each occasion. However, there are generic
concerns which may guide you, and with regard to these there is a lot
of knowledge available to the software language engineer. We only need
to search for it.

In this presentation I will provide insights in the developing field
of software language engineering. I will show you what the key issues
are and where you can find existing knowledge to guide, for instance,
the development of domain specific languages. I will also address the
topics that are not well understood and need further research. In
short, this presentation gives an overview of the field, its roots,
its highlights, and its uncharted territories.

### Bio

Anneke Kleppe has over 20 years of experience in IT. She started her
carrier in telecommunications, after which she worked as independent
consultant with her own company, Klasse Objecten. She is known for her
involvement with UML, OCL, and MDA. Currently she
is consultant at Capgemini and responsible for the introducntion of
domain specific languages for various clients.





