---
title: Call for Papers
layout: default2013
---

The 6th International Conference on Software Language Engineering
(SLE) is devoted to topics related to artificial languages in software
engineering. __SLE's mission is to encourage and organize
communication among communities that have traditionally looked at
software languages from different and yet complementary
perspectives__. Of particular relevance to SLE are
technologies, methods, experiments, and case studies on software
languages from researchers and practitioners who use modeling,
grammar, or ontology-based approaches. Research that bridges, connects
and integrates such approaches is particularly welcome.


### Scope

The term "software language" refers to artificial languages used in
software development. These include general-purpose programming
languages, domain-specific languages, modeling and metamodeling
languages, data models and ontologies. Examples include general
purpose modeling languages such as SysML and UML, metamodeling
frameworks such as Ecore, MOF or GOPRR, domain-specific modeling
languages for business process modeling, such as BPMN, or embedded
systems, such as Simulink or Modelica, and specialized XML-based and
OWL-based languages and vocabularies. The term "software language" is
intentionally broad; besides the above categories and examples, it
also encompasses implicit approaches to language definition, such as
APIs and collections of design patterns.


Software language engineering is the application of systematic,
disciplined, and measurable approaches to the development (design,
implementation, testing, deployment), use, deployment, and maintenance
(evolution, recovery, and retirement) of these languages. Of special
interest are (1) formal descriptions of languages that are used to
design or generate language-based tools and (2) methods and tools for
managing such descriptions, including modularization, refactoring,
refinement, composition, versioning, co-evolution, recovery, and
analysis.


### Topics of Interest

We solicit high-quality contributions in the area of SLE ranging from
theoretical and conceptual contributions to tools, techniques, and
frameworks that support the aforementioned lifecycle activities. The
topics of interest include, but are not limited to the following:


* Formalisms used in designing and specifying languages, and tools
  that analyze language descriptions

* Language implementation techniques: compiler generator tools,
  attribute grammar systems, term-rewriting systems, functional
  programming-based combinator libraries; metamodel-based and ontology
  tools implementing constraint, rule, view, transformation, and query
  formalisms and engines.

* Transformations and transformation languages, as well as program and
  model transformation tools, and approaches for mapping between
  ontologies.

* Language evolution: Included are extensible languages and type
  systems and their supporting tools and language conversion tools,
  approaches for ontology evolution, approaches for impact analysis of
  language evolution.

* Approaches to the elicitation, specification, and verification of
  requirements for software languages: Examples include the use of
  requirements engineering techniques in domain engineering and in the
  development of domain-specific languages and the application of
  logic-based formalisms for verifying language and domain
  requirements.

* Language development frameworks, methodologies, techniques, best
  practices, and tools for the broader language lifecycle covering
  phases such as analysis, testing, and documentation. For example,
  frameworks for advanced type or reasoning systems, constraint
  mechanisms, tools for metrics collection and language usage
  analysis, assessing language usability, documentation generators,
  visualization backends, generation of tests for language-based
  tools, knowledge and process management approaches, as well as IDE
  support for many of these activities are of interest.

* Integration and interoperation between different approaches to
  software language engineering; for example, ways to integrate
  grammar-based and ontology-based approaches to language definition.

* Design challenges in SLE: Example challenges include finding a
  balance between specificity and generality in designing
  domain-specific languages, between strong static typing and weaker
  yet more flexible type systems, or between deep and shallow
  embedding approaches, as, for example, in the context of adding
  type-safe XML and database programming support to general-purpose
  programming languages.

* Applications of languages including innovative domain-specific
  languages or "little" languages: Examples include policy languages
  for security or service-oriented architectures, web-engineering with
  schema-based generators or ontology-based annotations. Of specific
  interest are the engineering aspects of domain-specific language
  support in all of these cases.


The program committee chairs encourage potential contributors to
contact them with questions about the scope and topics of interest of
SLE. __The overall principle of SLE is to be broad-minded and inclusive
about relevance and scope, and to invest in community building when
soliciting and selecting papers.__
